# 3. AST Translation

Now that the new grammar and new AST classes are in place, we can begin implementing the translation from CST to AST. This happens in the `ASTListener` class. We need to add a method that corresponds to our grammar rule, with the signature `exitGiveSentence(ScenarioParser.GiveSentenceContext)`.

{% hint style="danger" %}
Unlike the missing methods in visitor class, there is no compilation error when forgetting to add this method. Problems will arise at runtime. In the best case, a rule popping everything from the stack \(using `popAll(Class)`\) will cause a `ClassCastException`. It is possible however that these expressions end up in some other list of expressions if no exception occurs. In the worst case, your sentence is completely ignored. All of these problems are very hard to debug, while the cause is just the missing method.
{% endhint %}

To implement it correctly, we need to understand how the translation works. All non-`Sentence` `exit*` methods push an instance of their corresponding `Node` subclass on a shared stack, called simply `stack`. Our receiver and argument already do this when the rule is parsed, so the `exitGiveSentence` implementation needs to pop the `Expr` objects they pushed before. Note that the argument is parsed after the receiver, so it lands on top of the stack, and we have to pop it first. Then, we create a `GiveSentence` from these. Sentences are not pushed on the stack, but added to the scenario's list of sentences.

```diff
 public class ASTListener extends ScenarioParserBaseListener
 {
     // ...
     
     // --------------- Sentences ---------------
     
     // ...
     
+    @Override
+    public void exitExpectSentence(ScenarioParser.ExpectSentenceContext ctx)
+    {
+        // the order of pop calls must be the inverse the order of subrules!
+        // (argument is parsed after receiver, so pushes after it and lands on top)
+        final Expr argument = this.pop();
+        final Expr receiver = this.pop();
+        this.scenario.getSentences().add(GiveSentence.of(receiver, argument));
+    }
     
     // --------------- Phrases ---------------
     
     // ...
 }
```

